---
categories:
- recipe
date: 2015-11-13T00:00:00Z
tags:
- snack
title: Extremely Chocolatey Flapjacks
url: /recipe/extremely-chocolatey-flapjacks
---

The best flapjack I have ever eaten. I usually make a **half quantity** as it's slightly less daunting to concoct.

###  Recipe

#### Preparation

Preheat your oven to 140 degrees (gas 3) and line a large deepish baking tray; 10x14 inches for the full recipe.

#### Ingredients

Weigh out:

* 700g of butter (yes, seven-hundred)
* 350g of soft brown sugar
* 350g of dark muscavado sugar
* 350g of oat flakes
* 550g of processed oats

Also make sure you have:

* 12 tablespoons of cocoa powder
* 6 tablespoons of syrup
* A selection of nuts and fruits (optional, but recommended).

#### Method

1. Melt the butter, sugar and golden syrup in a pan. Make sure the mixture doesn't boil.

1. Stir in about half of the oats and makes sure the mixture is thoroughly combined before adding the second half.

1. Take the pan off the heat and stir in 12 tablespoons of good quality cocoa powder.

1. Stir in the fruit and nuts at this point.

1. Spoon the mixture into your loved baking tray and flatten it so there are no peaks of mixture.

1. Lick the spoon and feel amazing.

1. Put the mixture on the top shelf of the oven and bake for about half an hour.

1. Leave to cool for 20 minutes and slice with a sharp knife whilst still in the tin.

1. Once completely cool lift the slabs out of the tin and place in the fridge overnight to firm up further.

1. Eat an edge piece and discover that you now want to eat every last one.

1. Go on a mammoth bike ride to justify scoffing the whole lot!


Recipe from the lovely people at [Singletrack](http://singletrackworld.com/2015/09/diy-trail-food-recipe-round-up/).
